hate is a really difficult we mustn't
hate people but if I was to hate sadik
Khan and what he stands for is something
so close to what that feeling must
[Music]
be hello everybody I have the privilege
of speaking today with actor Lawrence
Fox we start by talking about his recent
legal trouble in the UK Lawrence was
arrested
recently uh because of his
stated
support for
the activists in the UK who
are interfering with the imposition of
the closed circuit television cameras
designed to monitor everyone's movement
under the purported guise of
anti-pollution and saving the planet um
there's a lot of CCTV cameras in England
monitoring people to a much greater
degree than I think is justifiable in a
free society and Lawrence took a stance
against that and has paid a legal price
for doing so he's also suffered uh
substantial disruption of of his acting
career as a consequence of his political
stance which has been pillared by people
on the left as fascist as anything
that's liberal or even
moderately let's see moderately
conservative or even liberal tends to be
these days and so we talk about while we
talk about his legal trouble we talk
about his ability to act out dark
characters and what that means
psychologically and practically talk
about the relationship between freedom
of speech and the propagation of Truth
through through psyche and Society um
pointing in no small part to the fact
that there's a
real valuable Freedom that comes along
with just saying what you think you know
carefully and and clearly the cost of
that especially in ideologically addled
times can be the savaging of reputation
and the price you might pay in terms of
career development but the advantage is
the freedom of conscience
and and the ability to live in truth
that comes along with actually saying
what you believe to be true so we're
going to wander through all that
territory welcome
aboard so Lawrence I thought we'd start
um right at the heart of the matter or
one of the many black hearts of the
matter you might say I've been following
your recent
persecution I would say by the legal
establishment in the
UK I've I came across this what was
happening to you of course because of
Twitter primarily I've been following
you for a long time on Twitter and I've
also been watching with mounting
apprehension the operation of the
progressives in London it looks to me
like sadik Khan and his London
Administration are at the Forefront of
the C40 uh Consortium implementation of
the C 40 Consortium plans and I've
reviewed them they've put them out in
Stark black and white and they include
propositions like the elimination of 95%
of all forms of private transportation
over the next 10 years something like
that so there won't be any cars which is
why we're all being enjoined let's say
to buy the electric cars for which we
have an insufficient supply of
electricity let's say that we're going
to be required to buy something like
three articles of clothing a year year
to have one short hul flight per person
every 3 years which of course would
devastate the entire tourism industry
that basically keeps much of Europe
afloat uh to stop eating meat etc etc
and one of the steps in that direction
seems to be the establishment of these
ultra low emission zones which are there
as far as I'm concerned not in the least
to help the godamn planet but to stop
people from what would you say
to stop to discourage people in the
patterns of consumption that the
progressives regard as Planet
demolishing and now I know there's been
a big protest emerge in London in
particular with regards to the cameras
that the power mongering globalist
utopians have decided to employ every
which way to keep an eye on every bloody
thing that everyone does and that these
Blade Runner types so-called Blade
Runner types have been demolishing these
cameras and you have tweeted out your
support for that and I've retweeted that
and indicated my support as well in a
relatively tongue and Chic manner but
still directly you got arrested I went
to the UK a month ago they left me alone
which you know I suppose doesn't
surprise me in some ways but also
indicates the arbitrary what would you
call the arbitrary enforcement of these
absolutely Preposterous laws so do you
want to fill people in to the degree
that you can given your bail conditions
about exactly what's been going on with
you and what your view of this is sure
um so these uh I'm not allowed to say
the word um that you just said but I can
say that Blade Runner is my favorite
film um but I'm not allowed to say the
plural of that word and I'm not allowed
to say the name of these devices that
are used to um to surveil londoners you
can you can admit to the existence of
the plural I I presume I I I can admit
the existence of the plural but who
knows the door's not too far away they
might be barging at any time um this is
a scheme uh dreamed up as you said by um
the progressive Planet haters who want
to drag us all back into the Stone Age
and and the thing that bothered me most
about it um and probably one of the only
reasons I got involved in politics in
the first place was because it was a
scheme designed to damage the poorest in
society the most so I don't know if you
have this expression in Canada but we
the expression in London is the white
van man he's the guy that gets out in
his white van every day and he drives
into London he does whatever he does
Plumbing electrician anything like that
he is driving a diesel van and sadik
Khan and his gang of globalist um
scumbags have decided that any diesel
vehicle made after 2015 or 2016 I can't
remember the exact year is now liable
for a1250 day sech charge now and this
is in direct um conflict with the fact
that if you buy an electric vehicle with
your corporation tax in the United
Kingdom as a well-off person you can
claim back 100% of the cost of that uh
electric vehicle again in the first year
of your tax uh of your tax year so
essentially what he's doing is he's he's
he's deliberately making the poorest
people poorer and those with the least
voice quietest and I took great
exception to this no no one voted for
this there's actually he suppressed his
own report saying that this would have a
negligible effect on um the the
pollution in London and he had that
report suppressed so to me it was
criminal uh behavior and its extortion
and it's it's all the things that you
associate with with criminals as far as
I'm concerned so I supported in the
spirit of you know American westerns the
idea of people taking their Town back
and for doing so for tweeting my support
of it uh relentlessly and then for
saying that I'd like to join them
because um well I can't I also can't
admit whether I know them or not but um
sadik sent six of his finest coppers to
come and arrest me uh two and a half
months ago and what the thing that was
so profoundly moving about that
experience was on the car Journey on the
way back with the six coppers there was
a report of a suicide and a
stabbing and both of the times the
officers in the car said we're busy
dealing with other matters so I just you
know London has been completely hijacked
by this um this mankind hating
regressive
niist so let me I'm going to play
devil's advocate here a fair bit um
these are questions I torture myself
with so I'm going to make a case for sad
K's Khan's uh his actions so the first
case would
be well London is
overcrowded and there is expense
associated with the the uh traffic
congestion right the time that people
spend because traffic is congested and
you could imagine a scheme whereby there
was a fee implemented to dissuade
unnecessary now this is where it gets
tricky because who decides what's
unnecessary but to dis to dissuade let's
say delayable Transportation into London
right because it would keep the roads in
principle it might keep the Lord L roads
more free and that would actually if
people could move around more quickly
there would be some economic advantage
to that so what do you think do you
think there's any that any credit
whatsoever should be given to an
argument like that I mean so because K
could say well we're just
we're just trying to control traffic and
it is too congested now I know he's made
these cases that you know London air is
still polluted and I find that pretty
appalling because if you look at the
historical record of particulates and
and dangerous gases in London air the
Improvement in air quality o especially
over the last what five decades has been
absolutely precipitous and it's it's
actually a miracle of modern technology
that London air is as clean as it is and
you can say that for most cities even
places like la which like London were
famous for their pollution so that just
strikes me as Preposterous but can you
see any justification whatsoever for
attempting to
implement control over congestion in
London well we we already previously had
control over congestion in London which
was called the congestion charge which
everybody has to pay anyway if you drive
a vehicle in or out of London orbe it
not an electric vehicle so and you're
right to say that pollution is come down
drastically in London all meter readings
uh pollution meter reading particulate
meetings carbon readings are very very
either low or moderate in London so
there's no justification to add this
extra tax other than to fill up his
emptying coffers now there is a there's
a broader argument to be had about how
much we want the planet to be a cleaner
and better place I think you'd you'd
find it hard pushed to find someone who
go no I just want the planet to be much
more dirty but we've
seen we've seen with um also sorry just
to interrupt about the congestion thing
the um 50% of London social housing is
occupied by illegal immigrants so there
is a or or immigrants seeking asy Asylum
so we we London is already bursting to
overflowing so these these traffic
calming measures if they calmed traffic
great but they don't calm traffic it's
an ideological mission to because he
cannot force you out of your car because
there would be uproar what he's going to
do is he's going to tax you out of your
car so because people will not listen to
this idea that they want to be free to
drive to the beach you know England is
small you can get to the beach in 45
minutes from London if you want to he
wants you out of your car and into these
electric cars which in their own way are
digital prisons on their own because if
you speak to a if if you speak to a ECT
El car owner you know some of the Uber
drivers or or some of the other cab
companies in London they say that they
cannot the minute they get out of London
their battery is gone so they are
they're hemmed in by this digital prison
of their own car whereas you know you
can buy a Tesla and go quite a long way
but you buy a sort of mid-market here
and you're not going anywhere so uh you
know I I I fully support uh selik Khan
um trying to clean up London but I wish
he would do it with evidence instead of
made up figes he's making up these
figures of 4,000 people are going to die
from asthma and it's just a lie and I I
I struggle with people that lie openly
so he lies about he he's just been uh
reported the other day for knife crime
he said knife crime is down and my
tenure it's not it's up
40% but he feels that he can tell London
that knife crime is not a problem and
it's like it really is and in the same
way pollution is the same issue London
is a much cleaner and more wonderful
city than there ever was yeah well I I I
grew when I grew up cars were still
synonymous with freedom and I think in
North America especially where I grew up
I because I grew up in this little town
way the hell out on the edge of the
Prairie the biggest the nearest real
city was 4 400 miles away and so I lived
in my damn car from the time I was
really 16 onward especially in my late
teens and early 20s I mean car was
synonymous with freedom and you know
I've thought for a long time that one of
the most
effective acts of subversion the free
West ever managed in relationship to the
communist countries was to invent the
automobile because the automobile is the
is really the material embod embodiment
of the ethos of individual Freedom you
can jump in your car nobody knows where
the hell you are they can't keep track
of you although that's starting to
change and you can go wherever you want
without asking that's a big deal and
then when I so when I started to see you
know hypothetical utopians go after
automobiles I thought man if you hate
cars I'm probably your enemy cars and
comedians right if you if you hate cars
and you don't like comedians there's
something seriously wrong with you and
this I started to see the war on cars in
Toronto about 15 years ago like it just
got more and more more difficult to
travel by car more bloody bike Lanes
which is insane in a city like Toronto
where it's frigid bloody cold for 6
months a year you know the only people
who bike from November to March are
diluted 24 year-old men who think
they're saving the planet with their
godamn bicycles and the notion that you
know that's going to be a reasonable
mode of transportation for like a
70-year-old woman with her groceries is
just utterly prepost it just got more
and more difficult and I used to annoy
my family looking around saying you know
I think there's a war on cars going on
here I can't figure it out and you know
it wasn't until recent years that I came
across the bloody C40 documents which
read like the worst right-wing
conspiracists nightmare like you can't
even believe that it's true um what in
the world what what in the world do you
think is going on at a deeper level here
and like because obviously you're deeply
enough concerned about this to have put
your well you put your whole career on
the line which is something else that I
want to talk about but okay so you you
went out and you you evinced explicit
support for the actions of people who
were taking down the the um ultra low
emission Zone cameras and that got you
arrested and so what are you charged
with exactly and why did you feel that
this was a issue that was of sufficient
import to put you to put you and your
family at real economic and legal risk
so um yeah to answer your first question
I am they're considering to charge me
for conspiracy to commit criminal damage
and um support of criminal damage of
some kind um I think in the process
becomes the punishment thing we'll we
we'll see where they end up I I think
this scant evidence for that the reason
why I did it is the reason why I do
everything which is progresses hate
mankind they hate hate mankind with a
with a
visceral hatred and and I don't and
therefore I feel that it's important to
stand up and say you know you you
expressed it very well when you were
talking about the car it's like I want
to be able to take my kids and my dogs
to the river and I want to throw a ball
for my dog in the river and while my
kids to jump in the river and I want
risk and danger and I want all of these
things to happen in our lives and I
don't want my life to be like a battery
hen in a house asking permission for
people uh uh to to to do something which
is my god-given right to do and um it's
it's the selik Khan I mean hate is
really I've been really struggling with
this as a as a concept hate is a really
difficult we mustn't hate people but if
I was to hate sad Khan and what he
stands for is something so close to what
that feeling must be he's just it's just
Dreadful to try and control and and out
of your own weakness and nihilism and
hatred of life and meaning hatred of it
all to to go my the only way I can get
any meaning out of my life is to control
yours and I just go well I will put
every tool down in that war and I will
fight you face to face over that let me
play Devil's Advocate on that front too
because the see I've been struck in
recent years by the fact that you know
the the progressives had two broad
domains of of metaphysical concern one
was allying themselves with the
hypothetically oppressed including the
economically oppressed and the other was
saving the planet and so I was very
curious about what would happen when
those two concerns went head to head
right and so what I I've seen happen
clearly is that the progressive types
despite the fact that the grounding of
their progressivism is essentially in
principle the support of the oppressed
and the poor is that they will sacrifice
the poor to the to the hypothetical
concerns of the planet happily and in a
heartbeat because every time I've seen
the greens for example make a move on
the energy front this is particularly
evident in Germany and in the UK where
Energy prices just keep skyrocketing out
of control and the sources of of Power
are more and more unreliable and more
more dependent on dictatorial sources
for that that if it comes to screwing
the poor with higher energy costs which
is about the most effective way you can
screw them and foregoing saving the
planet momentarily they'll they'll screw
over the poor in a deadly fashion in no
time flat and it really is deadly you
know beor lomberg has shown statistics
for example that show that these
measures that purport to reduce energy
consumption by decreasing thermostat
maximum which is law for example you
have to do that at the bloody European
Commission in Brussels by the way you
know that even a Three Degree decrease
in thermostat setting in the winter will
cause several hundreds of thousands of
unnecessary deaths of elderly people
because they're so susceptible to
temperature fluctuation right because
and so but the progressives are going to
say to you something like well look
Lawrence you might want to have your fun
in games right now and take your flights
and have all your clothes and all your
privilege and and your so-called Freedom
which is actually just a marker of your
willingness and ability to exploit other
people but I'm much more concerned with
the situation 50 years down the road and
you trumpet your um what would you say
your concern for the poor and oppressed
at the moment but I'm trying to Stave
off you know Global disaster and if we
have to break a few eggs to make that
omelet it's well worth the sacrifice and
so that's the that's the perennial
argument right is that the future
well-being of the hypo so because the
argument you see is well when when the
tidal waves of climate change come
visiting it'll be the particularly the
poor who suffer most intensely and so we
have to make sacrifices now we have to
make sacrifices now to forall that what
do you I mean you can understand that
that's a in principle a credible
argument if you buy the climate change
narrative what do you think of that
argument how have you dealt with it
personally well I would say that
um the reason why they don't why the
climate argument and the socioeconomic
argument climate one was because
socioeconomically we're very fluid
capitalism with all its weaknesses is
quite a fluid system my brother-in-law
went from a a council house in ipswitch
to being a really really wealthy film
director
so you know it this this stuff happens
in Britain and it happens all across the
West so they they they sort of left that
alone and then in response to the second
question I would say um give me a single
climate prediction that these people
have ever come out with which wasn't
debunked within five years and and again
I
don't I every we've got to assume the
good faith in people and we want a good
we want a healthy planet we want a
cleaner future for our children we
already have one and it would seem to me
that the best way of making the world a
cleaner place is to make people richer
you know because I I've sat I've sat on
boats in the South China Sea driving
between islands and watched people
finish their poyene things that you used
to get in McDonald's in the 80s and just
throw them overboard and that's how they
dealt with it and I think it was because
they were too busy doing something else
but if these people were wealthier that
a they'd be you know you've you've
spoken about this before using better
fuel and B you know wealth is the is the
greatest thing you can give someone to
give them an opportunity to be
responsible for the planet that they're
going to pass on to their
children using the internet without
expressvpn is like having a first aid
kit but not keeping it stocked up most
of the time you'll probably be fine but
what if you suddenly get into a horrible
accident and there's nothing in your
first aid kit every time you connect to
an unencrypted Network in cafes hotels
or airports any hacker on the same
network can gain access to your personal
data such as your passwords and
financial details it doesn't take much
technical knowledge to hack someone just
some cheap Hardware is needed it's so
simple a smart 12-year-old could do it
hackers can make up to $11,000 per
person selling personal info on the dark
web expressvpn creates a secure
encrypted tunnel between your device and
the internet so hackers can't steal your
sensitive data it'd take a hacker with a
supercomputer over a billion years to
get past expressvpn's encryption I love
how easy expressvpn is to use just fire
up the app and click one button to get
protected plus it works on all devices
phones laptops tablets and more so you
can stay secure on the go secure your
online data today by visiting
expressvpn.com Jordan that's
expressvpn.com Jordan and you can get an
extra 3 months free expressvpn.com
[Music]
Jordan right okay so so your argument
and I believe this to be the credible
argument is that if you were genuinely
concerned with the poor and the planet
rather than merely hating the military
industrial capitalist complex and
Humanity in general you would take a
stark look at the facts you would
understand that transitioning our
economies from wood and dung through
coal fossil fuel to nuclear is an
appropriate transition and one that's
time tested it would lift the bottom
billion or two billion people out of the
object poverty that they still dwell in
and it would simultaneously be of
benefit to the planet and you'd also I
think Ally that with a view that we
should pull out all the stops on the
nuclear front because nuclear energy is
unbelievably dense we're much better at
producing the reactors if we could get
rid of the red tape than we were 50
years ago and so the other thing that
makes me so skeptical of the we love the
poor and the planet utopian narrative is
that the greens almost inevitably object
to nuclear energy and that's just a
bloody Miracle isn't it because if it's
carbon that's is the catastrophe and
that catastrophe is so impending that it
justifies the suspension of everyone's
civil rights and the imposition of a
lower standard of living on on the poor
which is going to knock a lot of them
into abject poverty then how how the
hell can you not make a case for nuclear
like if it's an emergency even if
nuclear is a risk and I don't really
think it is at least compared to other
risks then obviously in an environment
where all measures whatsoever are
Justified an emergency transition to
nuclear rather than to
unreliable unreliable so-called
Renewables which aren't renewable at all
that would be in the cards and so you
know the fact that that isn't happening
it's one of those places where you see
the internal contradictions of the
ideology make itself manifest it's like
well you know I work for the UN
years ago on the first really
sustainable development document and
I'm
morally pulled as a consequence of that
I would say in my defense that the
document the UN would have produced had
the team I was involved with it wasn't
my team it was Jim Balley's team he used
to run Rim if we hadn't Rewritten that
document it would be a hell of a lot
more socialist and Humanity hating than
it ended up being so I don't know if you
serve a lesser evil if you serve to
transform an evil into a lesser evil
does that mean that what you did was
good you know you could argue about that
but but what I really came to understand
when I worked on that panel was that all
the evidence suggested exactly what you
said was which is that if you got people
above about $5,000 a year in average GDP
they immediately started to take a
long-term view of the environment and so
it seems like the fastest way to a green
planet is through wealth but we have
this anti-human narrative that's been
thrust upon us as an alternative which
is that well really the carrying
capacity of the planet is only about 500
million people and those people would
have to live at a pre-industrial you
know standard of living I don't know if
they're supposed to all be bloody
hippies out on some you know Island
Utopia farming their goddamn goats and
their chickens you know which is a
dreadful way to live and I've watched
hippies try to do that with you know
catastrophic consequences because hand
to mouth is no damn fun and it also begs
the question what are you going to do
with the extra seven and a half billion
people and that's where I see like the
real danger of this sort of utopian
scheme I can't understand how you can
make the claim that the planet has too
many people on it without simultaneously
selling your soul to Satan you know and
I I mean that you know I mean that
almost literally it's like that's such
that's such an awful claim there's too
many people okay buddy which people
exactly I call I call it um German beach
towel
syndrome so when you're in a hotel and
you check into the hotel and you're
trying to go down to the pool and
someone has woken up usually a German in
England we mock the Germans for doing
this and they've taken all the they've
taken all of the beach chairs and it's
like we need them for us and then they
don't even turn up during the day I
think it's an uninterrupted view between
your paradise and the Sea and any plebs
any people who get in the way of your
uninterrupted view which you deserve
because you think correctly you see that
there's a problem and you're willing to
do something about it is is seen in some
way as as Noble and in my view it's that
that that is anti-human and
also I I grew up in a Christian family
I've been imbued with a lot of things
from from Christianity which I just
can't get out of my head and one of them
is that we're all made equal in the eyes
of God therefore therefore I I I feel
that that's a really good place to start
any conversation so it helps with any
conversations to do with poverty with
race with any other issue to go look
we're equal but we have different
opportunities and this idea that you
know the the the Hypocrites who fly
their Jets around the world telling us
that we mustn't eat meat anymore or
sadik Khan who gets a his 300,000 armor
plated Range Rover to drive him three
miles to walk his dog with his wife with
his security detail but we can't get in
a car and take our kids to the beach and
have a fire and cook some sausages is
you have to pick side at that point you
just have to go I've picked my side yeah
well you pick a side one way or another
man and everybody's going to find that
out in the next 5 to 10 years okay so
let me push you on something else too um
so when I was retweeting your tweets
supporting the um or
indicating admiration let's say for the
actions of people who were cutting down
the the Spy C cameras so I was shocked
when I went to London 15 years ago about
how many of those bloody CTV cameras
there were everywhere and I thought this
is not good because the UK is the home
of democratic Freedom fundamentally as
far as I'm concerned like it's the
epicenter and the fact that you guys put
those bloody cameras everywhere it's
just you know it's just AB in the name
of safety safety except except that
you're being watched by like
authoritarian cameras all the time which
doesn't strike me as safe and then
that's just multiply multiplied you know
in China now there's 700
million cameras they just watch everyone
all the time they do gate recognition so
even if your face is covered they can
recognize you're tracked 100% of the
time and that's certainly a potential
future that we could have that those
that idea was extended too into this uh
insistence that your car is so dangerous
that we have to track you wherever you
go in case you're like outputting some
iota of carbon or particulate so but
there's a contradiction here if you're
conservative in your or even libertarian
conservative particularly in your
political inclinations it's like I do
have some
unease in expressing my support for
direct civil unrest right I mean cutting
down cameras is not nothing it's it's it
is technically a criminal act how do you
re reconcile the fact
that you're calling for that you're
supporting
the the actions that vigilante types are
taking to push back against KH with the
conservative insistence that by and
large it's a citizen's responsibility to
uphold the law like how do you draw the
line there well I think I apply sort of
a very simple rule rule which is the
rule of fly tipping which is you're not
allowed to fly tip if you go and offload
a a van full of waste and you know
washing machines and Frid freezers on
the side of the motorway you're
prosecuted for it that's what you do so
no one voted so we have these low
traffic neighborhoods as well where they
stick a big plant pot in the middle of
the road and you can't drive through
people can't get into hospitals people
can't do anything so I see this as
digital fly tipping it wasn't there
yesterday
the world was the same world it is there
today the world is now a less free world
and no one has benefited as a result of
it so I see it less as looking at the
law I I see it as removing unwanted
digital waste from your community and
we're always encouraged to you know look
out for each other and protect your
neighbor and all of this sort of stuff
so I see it as that and I think a large
proportion of londoners also do see it
as that as we see with the um I mean I
can't encourage their work any anymore
because my free speech has been
controlled by the Metropolitan Police
but you know I see it as a civic duty
when uh moral wrong is committed it it
is your civic duty to do anything and
everything in your power to do it to
undo it okay okay so so let's imagine
for a moment that I'm one of these just
stop oil characters and I believe that
the planet is in existential trouble
because of climate change that's going
to run away and because of that I also
take to myself the right to break laws
to IM impede traffic flow to glue myself
to a spectacular painting I mean how do
you how do
you I wouldn't say convince yourself you
you see what I mean is that yeah there's
this danger in people taking matters
into their own hands right it it's the
danger of social unrest versus the
danger of of hyper obedience right and
but the just stop oil protester types
the people who are going too far on the
globalist utopian side seem to be using
similar communitarian arguments now you
know I don't I think that the fact that
the just stop oil protesters interfere
with traffic flow is inexcusable
fundamentally and I don't buy their
argument but it's complicated for me to
think through precisely I mean you have
to go all the way down to First
principles to some degree you know
mentioned in in your previous remarks
your proposition that you know each
person is made in the image of God and
that's that's getting pretty close down
to First principles I mean I don't know
while you sorry I'm I'm wandering around
in this question but you get the point
is that what is being done by the people
who are cutting down the cameras is
analogous with a different set of
metaphysical propositions to what is
being done by the just stop oil
protesters and so it isn't exactly
obvious to me how to draw the proper
moral
distinction well I I think it it is
possible to draw a moral distinction
over stopping traffic flow because um
obstructing the King's Highway has been
a illegal since forever so stopping
people going to and from work and
preventing ambulances getting to and
from hospital that that is clearly an
egregiously wrong thing to do um taking
an angle oh can I see this taking an
angle grinder to a um to a lamp post
that was not previously there I I I see
what you're saying which is like at what
point does a c citizenry take the law
into their own hands I it's really
difficult it is really difficult I would
for example I think the more the justop
oil people throw orange paint on
masterpieces the better because we the
more people will just go yuck and they
don't have any public support for doing
so and I think that the public support
the overwhelming public support for what
even we've had Ian Duncan Smith who's a
former leader of the conservative party
has expressed his if not support but his
understanding as to why these uh people
are are doing what they're doing okay so
so one of the things you're referring to
is the fact that it that that's an
argument that's essentially grounded in
a appreciation of the sovereignty of the
people is that if you you know I think I
read at one point this might be wrong
but it's a good illust the principle I I
think it was the Netherlands that had a
custom or legislation that if 75% of
Netherland citizens citizens broke a
given law you had to get rid of the law
right so there is there's got to be some
idea that the law although it has to
shape people and and inhibit them to
some degree it should sit on a basis of
mutual consent and that brings us to
another issue too I've been thinking
this through especially with regard to
what happened during the covid lockdown
you
know and if there's an emergency you can
understand that you can understand the
argument that some civil liberties might
have to be lifted to deal with the
emergency you can understand that
argument in principle but my sense is
that if someone is calling for an
emergency claiming an emergency and
simultaneously pointing to the fact that
civil liberties are to be suspended in
Consequence the first conclusion you
should draw from that is that they're
probably wolves in sheep's clothing
they're probably tyrants and that the
argument is actually the reverse they
want to impose control and so they're
generating an emergency and we should
demand what do they say radical claims
require um overwhelming evidence it's
something like that and so our general
sense as citizens should be if you're
bloody the emergency if you're calling
for an emergency that grants you
additional power you would have to prove
every which way that you're not just a
tyrant who's lying that should be the
default thumb you know the rule of thumb
and so the same thing seems to me to
apply with these with these cctvs and
and this widespread surveillance it's
like you claim to be
acting as a consequence of being
motivated by by the highest possible
virtue you know if it's not God it's
your version of compassion which is the
modern God but the fact that you're acre
all the power as a consequence seems
like a coincidence a little bit too um
that's cutting a bit too close to the
Bone to
ignore and this seems to be happening y
i i i i think that F first and foremost
there's got to be a free speech element
to this so you you you've got to be able
to criticize something be it lockdowns
be it um Sadi Khan's ridiculous climate
scam schemes or anything so we we have
to put free speech of the Primacy of the
center of of any single argument the
second thing that one's got to look at
is if we are banned from discussing an
issue at all it needs discussing so for
example the so-called climate emergency
if we're told there is a climate
emergency it's not up for discussion
there is a uh a deadly virus it's not
for discussion this is the only
treatment if you're banned from doing
that you need to talk about it and the
third thing is if you're trying to make
the world a better place and a cleaner
and happier and more uh you know fuele
efficient place and you want to build 15
minutes cities where I can walk to my
barber I can walk to my Supermarket then
build me the infrastructure before you
build me the controlling mechanisms to
with which you're going to shut down my
life yeah well that's a really that's a
really good point you know like when
this 15-minute City thing came up you
know it was so interesting to watch it
morph because I looked at the plans of
the new urban planners let's say 15
years ago and in North America in
particular our cities are blighted by
the spread of these mcmansion suburbs or
even just middle class suburbs that
really have no community center right
there's no shopping malls there's no
bars there's no churches there's no
downtown there's just an endless sprawl
of identical house
and there's something Soul deadening
about them they're not
constructed in a manner that makes for
human flourishing because there's no
social element to the community they're
just boxes with individuals in them
right and inside the box there are other
boxes where everyone's with their camera
or with their phone in their own
atomized environment and so when the new
urbanists started to talk about you know
building localized centers where things
were within walkable disc distance and
there were and there were the sorts of
things that you might want to walk to
like a community center and a church and
a pub and a theater I thought well that
makes perfect sense you shouldn't have
to hop in your car every time you want
to you know grab a loaf of bread but
then it was so interesting to watch that
the seed of a good idea be immediately
what would you say uh gripped on to by
The moralizing utopist Who immediately
conjured up way to make the 15minute
cities into something like digital
prisons I it was quite a miracle to
watch that transformation occur and and
and you you pointed to something of
cardinal importance it's like look and I
think this is where the free marketers
have it over the centralizes as well
it's like if you want to build people a
15minute city that's unbelievably
inviting so that people flock there and
voluntarily leave their automobiles at
home because they can walk wherever they
want and that's easier then have add her
and if you make a fortune doing it you
know two thumbs up for you but if you
start with the force and the compulsion
and the deprivation of civil liberties
we should suspect immediately that
you're not just going to start there
that's going to be the whole bloody
thing and that whatever you're offering
is just well it's just it's a false
reward for accepting these these these
this imposition of force same thing and
so maybe this is a good rule of thumb
for people to abide by which is that
we're trying to do this with this Arc
Enterprise that that just had its
conference in London the alliance for
responsible citizenship we have a rule
of thumb all policy based on force is at
least suboptimal if not outright wrong
if I can't do something in a manner that
invites you
voluntarily then I'm wrong I want to
tell you a little story about that you
tell me what you think about this we
were talking about about the
Christianity of your youth I just did a
seminar on Exodus with a group of
Scholars and we released that on the
daily wire platform and on YouTube and
that was quite successful there's a real
cool part of that story so it has to do
with Moses so Moses is the archetypal
figure who fights tyranny and redeems
the slave and so you could imagine that
in so far as you're a fully functioning
social being who's moral that's what you
do you oppose tyranny and you you grant
responsibility and dignity and direction
to the slaves okay so that's what Moses
does and he does this for like four
decades right 40 years in the desert he
puts his life on the line he sacrifices
his whole life to this Enterprise
standing up against the Pharaoh which
was a deadly thing to do and then
leading his people through their
confusion in the desert so they drop
their tyranny and then they're confused
for 40 years now just as he reached is
the promised land and so the archetypal
structure here is everybody's journeying
to the place they want to go to right
and no matter what you're doing you're
always trying to Journey to the place
you want to go to that's the promised
land so Moses has done this assiduously
for four decades now he's right on the
threshold of the promised land and the
Israelites are all bitching and whining
and squawking away because they're out
of water again and so Moses goes to God
and he says well you know we need some
water and God says well you're going to
find some rocks and he tells them where
and he says go speak to the rocks and
they'll issue forth water and Moses goes
but instead of speaking to the Rocks he
hits them with his staff and his staff
is a symbol of authority and tradition
right so he strikes The Rock and then he
strikes it again and the water does come
forth from the rock but God tells him
that because he used Force instead of
words that he will die before he enters
the Promised Land it's such a striking
yeah right it's such a striking story
because you have this person who's as
close to a savior as anyone in the Old
Testament right I mean Moses he's I
think he's the central figure of the Old
Testament you know you could argue about
that but he's certainly a central figure
and so he does things about as well as
you could hope anyone could do and yet
the punishment for him for using Force
even in that relatively trivial manner
is that he can't
he can't make the Utopia make itself
manifest right that's how dangerous
force is and so maybe we could use as a
rule of thumb the idea that anybody
who's trying to push you to do
anything if they're actually trying to
push you they're not to be trusted if
they can't formulate their Doctrine as
an invitation a voluntary invitation at
minimum they're incompetent and probably
they're Psychopathic and tyrannical
yeah I mean I mean I think you touch on
possibly the most important question of
this fluctuating time that we live in
which is what comes
next
does do the do the so-called or the
self-appointed right thinking men bash
their
staves on the head of the radical woke
ideologues the racists the people who
wish should tear this Society apart do
we bash our staff and say no or do we
have faith in God to ask and I think
look I I I I'm I'm in no way a
theologian and I'm in no way someone who
is able to speak on uh on biblical
matters in any way at all but I
think there's something in that story
which is which is fascinating because I
have a very very strong desire and I
know it's a personal and and a human and
a fallible desire to to go you know what
these people need counseling we need to
councel these people they they they have
bought Terror and horror on they I mean
they've destroyed a large part of my
life but you know they gave me a new one
so that was okay but they they bring
misery everywhere and you think you know
what do what does one do back and I
suppose uh you know the closest I can
come to it now is if God is saying you
just offer the word and the water will
come then then maybe it is literally
that simple it is we encourage Comics we
encourage those people to speak and not
compel we encourage people to be
courageous in their words not in their
not not in their desire to play the same
game as the as those that they don't
agree with play and I struggle with this
all the time because I get more and more
and more and more frustrated because you
know we have this same thing with sik
Khan he has a block vote we have
obviously we have you know the US and in
the UK have the same problem with uh
unfettered and uncontrolled immigration
which only affects the poorest people in
society including immigrants and you
just think this has got to stop we have
to compel you to do this but actually I
think there is something wonderful in
the human in the mystery of the human
which is that you know speak gently and
carry a big stick I mean something
better about that well one of the things
I've really noticed on social
media and I think this is most Stark on
Twitter so since I made a comment that
was somewhat impulsive on Twitter about
the Israel Hamas conflict I've
restructured the way I'm interacting on
Twitter and so instead of redistributing
anti-woke material you know which has
that forceful kind of forceful element
to it right we need to put a stop to
this and like like I've had so I've been
persecuted by my college of
psychologists in Ontario and it's it's
very annoying and I have a temper and
I'm not that afraid to use it and I've
had some pretty bloody brutal fantasies
about just exactly what I'd like to do
to the office of the College of
psychologists you know and there's a
part of me that not only thinks that's
Justified and necessary but would also
kind of Glory in it you know but one of
the things I've noticed Lawrence is that
and this is especially true on Twitter
is
that we've turned my Twitter feed into
something that's basically putting out
positive messages that are pulled from
my writings right they're invit you
could think about them as Invitational
messages and I've also seen this on
YouTube you know when when I do a more
political interview that's oriented more
towards fighting back against the
utopian radicals
the Twitter comment or the the comment
feed gets pretty vitriolic and quite
polarized and often quite
unpleasant whereas if the message is
Invitational you know laying out an
alternative Vision that's positive and
talking to someone about how that might
come about which is what we did at the
AR conference then all of a sudden the
comment sections are extremely positive
and I would also say that those
messages especially now attract more
attention than the more political
messages and so you know so maybe it is
that it's incumbent and this seems to be
Associated you tell me what you think
about this it seems to be associated
with the doctrines of you know turn the
other cheek and resist not evil you know
and and part of the reason I really
wanted to talk to you today is because
both of us have paid a
rather complex personal price for taking
the stand that we've taken now it's
certainly not been for me it's certainly
not been something that was without its
opportunities quite the contrary you
know in some ways it's the best thing
that ever happened to me although some
of it was pretty rough you know I lost
my research career I lost my University
career and my clinical practice had to
shut down I mean I I spent decades
investing into those Enterprises and I
was good at them and I enjoyed them and
so sacrificing them was not nothing even
though the consequences of that have
been remarkable
but I am trying to work through the
notion that maybe
all of us all that those of us who are
opposing the centralizing power mad woke
Humanity hating woke mob should be doing
is putting forth an alternative Vision
that's Invitational you know now that
that gets us back to the initial
question which is well does that mean
that it's reasonable to tweet out
support for people who are you know
practically opposing the proliferation
of CCTV cameras you know that's a place
where the rubber hits the road and I'm
still conflicted about that because I
hate those godamn cameras I think
they're unbelievably dangerous and I
feel that you're morally obligated to
dispense with them that's what you do in
the celebration of Freedom all arguments
about
security last thing we need is a
Security State there's no security in a
Security State you give up all Security
in a Security State and I don't know how
to reconcile that necessity for active
opposition to the more blatant forms of
tyrannical surveillance with the notion
that an Invitational Vision that abjures
use of force is
clearly both more attractive and perhaps
more practically what would you say and
perhaps more practical so w so what do
you think of that you're a temperamental
guy so you know you've got an
inclination to to to have the
scrap I think there's a humor to it um
and I think the thing about the
uh guys that I'm not allowed to say the
name of is that there is a humor to it
that there there's something about it
which is we know we're never going to
beat the big system but we're not going
to go down without a fight and no one is
getting harmed in the process so so this
isn't like a like the the equivalent of
of taking a man who suddenly wants to
put on a wig and putting him in a
woman's prison this is
removing something that they don't want
and no one got hurt doing it other than
the you know taxpayer essentially or the
or the mayor in his silly scheme so I
think if you apply a level of of humor
Humanity to it then I think it has some
value but I do agree with you look we
we're going to as we enter this this
most difficult phase of the conflict if
that's if I'm talking about it correctly
we are there all of the weapons that we
have that we have tried to defend
ourselves with are going to be used as
cudgels to destroy us with certainly
over stuff like free free speech why
shouldn't I sing um from The River To
The Sea why shouldn't I call you know
you saw the debacle in um the Senate
hearing where they were saying well
maybe it maybe it maybe it's calling it
they're going to and they and her first
thing in her apology note was to say
well I was just upholding the First
Amendment the right to free speech oh
yeah oh man that yeah right at Harvard
oh yes that was ranked 248th out of 248
universities for free speech that was
just beyond absolutely bloody Beyond
Comprehension standing for free
speech how do we how do we as human
beings who
I think one of the differentiating
factors between us is that I do not hate
woke people and I said this at the
beginning it's really hard not to hate
sadique Khan because he's he's a really
horrible guy but I don't hate him I hate
what he does I hate what he does but I
don't hate him so I think the one of the
things that is is the differentiating
factor is and that's not to put yourself
in a morally Superior position but is to
turn around and say I I don't hate you
as a person I just hate what you're
doing it is it reasonable to say that
you that it's okay to hate what though
what people in that situation are
possessed by you know yeah I think so
because well that that that seems to me
to be the right level of analysis is
that you can see it's sort of like the
idea of a of a principality you know I
can see these systems of ideas that are
at War right there are systems of ideas
at War and the system of idea ideas
that's on the woke side is the metam
Marxism of the postmodernists right
everything's a victim victimizer
narrative it's a it's an all devouring
ideology that grants moral propriety to
its upholders it's an unbelievably
dangerous Enterprise but it is
impersonal in some ways in that if you
have a hundred radicals they all have
the same idea and so it's not them it's
the and you know and that means that the
proper level for the battle is
philosophical or theological or
spiritual or ideational or psychological
rather than than physical maybe it's
only when you lose the battle that you
have to re you have to resort to
physical means you you also talked about
the utility of humor but I had I ju Just
quickly let me just L something in there
I've been in court the last 10 days over
a Lial trial and I
watched everybody who was against me who
tried to destroy my life that's what
they' done and I and I thought I'd
really like to go up for a beer with you
guys because aside from this one little
kind of crazy woke thing where you're
completely right about everything and
I'm a you're a total moral supremacist
and I'm wrong and I need to educate
myself aside from that one pervasive and
albeit dead character flaw I'd really
like to go out for a beer with you and I
have a strong feeling that none of them
would like to go out for a beer with
me know I think I think that's a really
good observation you know because when I
was surrounded by screeching Harpy
students and often female and then their
idiot male enablers who were generally
Psychopaths what I kept remembering was
well you know you're 19 if I was at a
dinner party at your parents
house I would probably think that you
are a pretty decent young person with
some crazy ideas rather than that you're
just an absolute bloody Serpentine mess
of crazy ideas with a tiny bit of good
person associated it's not like that at
all and I I've thought about this too
sort of technically speaking you know is
that Jean P the developmental
psychologist he noted that get a bunch
of kids together and they could play a
game coherently according to a coherent
set of rules but if they were young
enough if you separated them and asked
them what the rules were you got wildly
disperate accounts so together they
could play the game because each of them
had fragmentary knowledge of the game
but as a unit all the knowledge was
there it's sort of like a group of a
hundred University protesters is that
because there's a hundred of them the
whole bloody pathological principality
is there but in each person they're like
10% possessed right and so maybe what
you do when you don't hate the person is
that you have the possibility of
separating the wheat from the chaff what
you would hope for for your wouldbe
ideological enemy is
that
free expression of idea in genuine
dialogue would free them from the grip
of their possession and then you'd have
another useful person around which seems
to be a lot better than well the
potentially negative consequences of of
full-on combat you know you
mentioned I had a journalist friend of
mine say something similar to to me this
week by the way he said very wise man
with much experience he said he believes
that we're entering the most difficult
phase of this conflict and you alluded
to something similar why why why why did
that idea make itself present to you and
and why do you regard that as an
accurate summation of what's
happening I
think it's difficult as an actor you're
um you're trained a tiny part of your
brain is trained it's such a small part
of your brain it's to be present and to
Remember at the same time so it's it's
it's a tiny part of your brain in
conflict and that creates a sense of I
can see something's happening and
actually it it came to me by realizing
sitting in court when you put this
ideology to
reason to cold
scrutiny to um proper and rigorous
inquiry it has nowhere to go it has
nowhere to run it it it can't survive a
conversation none of it can survive a
conversation
and you notice that as you know these
little Sparks that appear in society
like
anti-Semitism and um PE people feeling
that they can identify totally as their
own little crowd group in Britain you
think that people are beginning to run
out of patience and they're just signs
and I think Peter B oan put it really
really well he said this is coming to an
end and everyone is going to say that
they they they never played part and I
have I I suppose in sort of round in
rather stupid way I'm trying to
say it I can tell it's coming to an end
I can just see it coming to an end and
and I know it's coming to an end because
it doesn't make any sense and nature of
B is a vacuum and we've had a vacuum now
for a very very long
time once your business gets to a
certain size cracks start to emerge and
things you used to do in a day are now
taking over a week if this is you then
you need to check out net Suite 37,000
businesses have upgraded to net Nets
Suite by Oracle Nets Suite is the number
one Cloud Financial system streamlining
accounting financial management
inventory HR and more net Suite turns 25
this year that's 25 years of helping
businesses do more with less they can
help you close your books in days not
weeks and drive down costs because your
business is oneof aind you get a
customized solution for all of your key
performance indicators in one efficient
system with one source of Truth net
Suite will help you manage risks get
reliable forecasts and improve margins I
cannot stress enough that you will have
everything you need to grow all in one
place with Nets Suite right now download
netsuite's popular kpi checklist
designed to give you consistently
excellent performance for absolutely
free at netsuite.com
jbp that's netsuite.com jbp to get your
own key performance indicator checklist
again that's netsuite.com
sjbp
okay so I'll play Devil's Advocate there
again so I was talking to I talk
frequently with both Jonathan pajo who's
been a Cardinal player in this Arc
Enterprise he's a very wise person and
with Michael melis they're quite
different people because Paso is a icon
Carver and a and a deep Christian
trained as well in the postmodern ethos
so he understands both sides of the
argument and Michael malis is kind of a
Libertarian um um Anarchist but both of
them have the they're both of them
believe that we're not going to get
through this bout of ideological
conflict without some really serious
trouble and my sense is more agnostic I
believe that the future isn't Written in
Blood and that if we conducted ourselves
wisely we we could have a virtual
apocalypse let's say instead of the real
thing that we could work this out in the
realm of ideas we could tilt ourselves
back on the upward path without the kind
of Mayhem that was that sometimes
accompanies a transformation of Ideology
Now there's some precedent for this
obviously when the Soviet Union
collapsed that was much less bloody than
we had any right to to Hope or expect
so by then I you know I'm really torn
about this because I look at the
universities and I think oh my God you
guys are so far gone that nothing but
your total collapse is going to bring
about a transformation and when I start
thinking that that's a rather
pessimistic view something like what
happened in Washington happens and you
get the president of MIT in Harvard and
you pay all three woefully
underqualified for the job come out and
say in Unison something so utterly blood
curdling and Preposterous that it's
surreal you think well it's a long ways
yet to the bottom and
so you think you you think it's going to
come you think you you intimated that
you believe that this is going to come
to an end do you do you I just can't I
don't have any vision of how things are
going to lay themselves out over the
next few years I can't predict it and so
but you you said you have a sense I can
see look I put up five YouTube videos
last year that were all critical of the
climate
narrative and basically nothing happened
to me as a consequence YouTube put up a
few warnings you know that like they
always do about how climate change is
this ultimate catastrophe but they left
them alone and almost all the comments
were positive and certainly the climate
catastrophe narrative has taken a
vicious hit in the last year and people
are pretty tired of the trans stupidity
so but but then you see the depth of
corruption in places like the
universities and you think oh my God you
know how much trouble is they going to
have to be before sanity
does does
prevail I suppose what gives you a a
sense that things are going to change I
was quite affected by something that you
said quite early on and weirdly um my
dad who broke the car like he he slammed
the brakes on in the car when I was
about 8 years old and he went
postmodernism is evil and I was like
didn't understand but I could just
remember it and he was obviously
listening to the BBC or something and
you said this thing quite early on and
he was a dad actually introduced all of
us to you to to varying degrees of love
let's put it that way and um and um one
of the things that I thought was this
idea that you raised which was when this
thing is
overthrown what comes a sort of
hitlerian figure comes doesn't he out of
the viar which is you know Victor Davis
hunson talks about how we're in this
sort of leisured affluent viar period
and and from that comes a hitlerian
figure and one of the greatest things I
think about Britain and um John Anderson
said this to me as well when he when he
spoke he said when things get really
really bad people are going to look at
Britain they're going to look to Britain
and they're going to look at your legal
system and we're going to look at the
way that you've been going around you
know you've reformed you've unreformed
you've you you've reversed revolutions
you've done all this stuff and I think
that there
is within the English patience the the
fundamental English patience there's a
real stoic solidness to it and I think
that that's what will ultimately end
this period that we cannot have um
people are now openly laughing at the
way universities is are talked about in
UK okay anyone who is vaguely awake is
turning around and saying you know don't
send your kids to
universities um I'm we do what we do VI
the bad law project to to challenge the
government over certainly stuff that
they're teaching in schools and I think
I think a sort of bloodless coup is
possible but but part of me is like is
this is going to end violently but it
might end violently it might end
violently in a sort of in a good way for
one to a better word which is that they
go they get so upset and so angry and so
annoyed that no one is listening to them
and that British people still want to
protect their culture and not have it
diluted and stuff like that that there's
a big Riot we've already seen what's
going on in London over the last three
weeks and Britain just galvanizes itself
we're very tough like that and and and
that gives me some hope admittedly it's
fleeting often but it does give me some
it gives me hope that it can be how
quick was McCarthyism um they just said
go didn't they it was just like goodbye
out you know and I think that that
something similar might happen well it
might it might depend you know it might
depend on how effectively it will depend
I think on how effectively people
conduct themselves and you know I think
that for for people like you and I
whatever we can do to strive to
keep enmity out of our hearts is going
to all be to the good you know like I am
very unimpressed with the leader of
Canada I would have a very difficult sh
time shaking his hand I really detest
him
and you know possibly the right attitude
would be to wish the better part of him
well and to hope that he could escape
from his narcissistic entrapment you
know but that's prob well you know
stranger things have happened it is
possible for people to undergo quite
dramatic transformations of character I
mean that happens to Paul to Saul on the
way to Damascus right I mean you could
have a you can have a transformative
moment and I suppose if you had any
sense that's what you'd wish for for
everyone that they could see the light
properly um I think that if people on
the alternative Vision side while we
we're seeing this with Ark you know like
that we put a bunch of videos up on
YouTube that came from the ark
conference and the more political they
are the less popular they are the more
Visionary the more metaphysical and the
more humorous they are the better
they're performing right and then the
comments are also extremely positive on
the apolitical Visionary talks and very
negative on the political talks and so I
think that is a reflection too of the
fact that you know if we're going to
those of us who are interested in
standing against the use of arbitrary
Force should be very careful about
not even secretly being pleased when
unnecessary force is used well again and
that's another thing that makes the the
camera issue so bloody complicated I
mean I I still think your arguments
about opposing their distribution is I
think your arguments are correct and I
think that that form of civil
disobedience is not only appropriate but
morally called for you also mentioned
you know that one of your Hallmarks for
distinguishing between useful and and
dangerous civil disobedience is the
humor that goes along with it and I you
know that I think that's a really good
marker too the best the most popular
speech that that emerged out of the art
conference was Constantine Ken's speech
you know and Constantine is damn good at
interleaving the serious with the
light-hearted and self-deprecating and
absurd so there is something about that
allowance for the Absurd that does seem
to be a touchstone for honest
communication you see that too you know
so many of the Great YouTubers are
comedians or EXC comedians right and I
that's not fluke they're they're good at
listening to the audience and they don't
take themselves too seriously you know
and and those are profound markers
of the sort of character that you might
be able to
trust let me ask youor oh go ahead go
ahead I was just saying perhaps we're
witnessing um one of the other things
that we're witnessing which is either
new or not new my knowledge of history
is not obviously the greatest is this
idea of the political influencer via
social media the the the absence of a
political leader you know we've got the
the labor party and the conservative
party in the UK the conservative party
took in 30 million in donations in the
last quarter of 2022 or whenever it was
Labor took in 3 million the Insurgent
party reform which is currently polling
they say at 10% took in
20,000 so it seems to me that there is
zero appetite for a change politically
but there is a huge appetite for a
change culturally or or or or a
realignment culturally so that people
people always say to me you know you you
you get it times a million but when I'm
stopped on the street people say to me
thank you for trying to protect our
culture thank you and that comes from
weird not weirdly just normally but it's
overwhelmingly people who are new
arrivals to this country who came to
this country to succeed who want to play
on a fair playing field they don't want
they they wanted to leave the
oppressions and the oppression
hierarchies of the places that they
lived in before behind and they wanted
to fight on a play fa uh Fair playing
field and so I wonder whether we we're
also going to see the rise in the
political influencer you know the rock
might run for or taka Carlson might
become you know Trump's VP doubtable as
it is but whether the entire social
media landscape and all of and all of
the New Media has you know you you've
got with the daily wire you know if Ben
Shapiro decided to run for office who
knows what would happen it's it's a sort
of strange development anyway that was
my sort of a side to your point let me
ask you something more personal here for
a bit um I I what what exactly is
happening with you as a consequence of
the legal entanglements that have
enveloped you like what are you in
danger of I mean I know the process is
the punishment and everyone the the
police who came to round you up um are
part and parcel of that what what were
the police like what are the police like
like the thing that's so striking to me
about the police in the UK and and in
North America is that it isn't obvious
to me that their natural allies are the
you know woke utopians and so how did
the police who came tell us the story
about the police coming to your house
how did they treat you and what what
what's your family what are you and your
family going through at the moment okay
so the so the the police I have to
confess to being a pathetic actor and
actors always want to please Their
audience so when the police turned up I
tried to make friends with them and I C
I could make friends with everyone
except for one for the arresting officer
who'd got his big day and that was hard
uh but even by the end of the day I
think I'd won him around and look I took
I said to them can I take a book with me
because I'm going to be in the cells and
they were nice enough to let me take a
book so I finished off the gulag
archipelago
was quite a useful time in the sales and
you're thinking well I don't know that
bad um in terms of in terms of the
police I think
they you know I think that I again I
want to apply this uh and I must apply
this because otherwise I would go insane
that what people are doing is not
necessarily who they are so I think that
you know there was a sort of they were
quite charged when they came in and they
really wanted to get involved but by the
end of the day I think I won them over
and they were actually sympathetic even
though they did nothing about it when I
said please can I have my children's
phones and iPads back because what have
they got to do with this and there was a
really touchy moment and it was was
horrible actually because I'm stood in a
police uh station next to a kid
19-year-old kid or younger with like
forensic sleeves on his arms so those
white forensic stev he's covered in
blood this kid and I'm stood next to him
and he's obviously just killed somebody
and I'm and I'm thinking wow we we are
the we're being treated with the same
level of seriousness by the law so that
gave me pause for
Thought uh in terms of my
family I have
a my uh my dad is as I think I've sort
of alluded to in this conversation with
you he he was on this stuff in the like
1985 I think I was on that car Journey
when he was going so he's sympathetic he
doesn't necessarily approve of my
tactics um my one brother up is a is a
beautiful and wonderful Stern brother
but he's really there for you when you
when you need him but he again it's like
not necessarily approving of my tactics
my sister and I uh we disagree about
everything our politics are completely
different and we get on like a house on
fire so it's like how do you know about
these things and then the people that I
really feel sorry for are my children
because um you know a really well-known
actor went up to my son at school cuz my
little son goes to this the I mean the
most Dreadful school that Britain has to
offer by miles it's just Dreadful full
of celebrity Rich celebrities very woke
celebrities they teach it's all
transgenderism the whole thing is
transgenderism and this actor took it
upon himself to go up to my son and tell
him that his dad was a fascist and
that's oh yeah that's that's that's
that's Pleasant how old is your son he
was 11 at that oh yeah lovely lovely
yeah yeah that's great well I guess that
guy picked on someone his own
size yeah so I so that is difficult but
my kids you know the the whole point of
doing anything you ever do is for you
and for your kids you know and you and
you know part of the I think part of the
process of meaning
full stop is to remedy some of the
things that you know it's to try and
refine the the mechanism of the family
and all those sorts of things as you
learn from your father and your mother
the mistakes they made and you go well
I'll try not to make that mistake so
your your life is constantly driven by
meaning you're always trying to find
meaning in it so therefore with W with
my kids they understand me and they get
me and they and they know who I am and I
and I'm flattered and honored to be
their parents and that's that that's how
it is I mean is it is it difficult yes
it's difficult but is it difficult to be
sat in a situation in life where you had
no choice no say and your life was ended
like that so I I you can't I like these
old truisms these I I like these old the
the these things that someone's got it
worse than you I like those things I
like sticks and stones may break my
bones I like that I like all of these
things because it reminds you that you
are you are entrenched in a reality of
your own making which isn't as bad as it
could be so be tough and be strong and
and love your and love as much you can
and and how about your wife how how has
she managed to managed with all the
disruptions in your career and and you
putting yourself and and your family
well in one way on the line I mean It's
Tricky right because you're always
putting your family on the line in one
way or another like there's no escape
from that in life you know and so really
what you do is you decide how you're
going to lay things on the line but
often what people will do is take it
illusory short-term Security in
preference to actually addressing the
issue at hand and I mean you've you've
suffered a a dreadful amount of
disruption especially on the career
front as a consequence of your political
stances and how what's that done to your
marriage well my marriage ended in
2016 and she is a very interesting
character who is using the um we really
need to have a look at the family courts
in the UK we're still arguing in Family
Court weirdly whichever political case I
have seems to work its way into a family
court case at the at the same time which
is different but my partner what my
partner is is uh
is still water you know she just what
when I um when I
go I C this is mad it's too much she
just goes it's okay it's okay you'll be
all right do you want to talk about it
and it we she she's still water and I'm
fire and that works for me oh yeah uh
because I as you said you know you've
got a temper I've got a real temper like
yesterday when I was with my kids and I
was saying we got to go and see Grand
and everyone and they're like the car's
going to come in 4 minutes and they're
like I'm ready and it's like then the
car arrives and no one's ready and
you're just like kids come on go so um
my partner is she's the she's the ice
and the cooling to to the fire that I
can be sometimes right well that's
that's that's handy that's handy to have
someone who can let you take a sober
second
thought yeah so what are your plans what
are your plans what are you doing now
and what are your plans for the
future so how are you keeping Body and
Soul together even well it's really
annoying I had a neck operation so I I
used to keep my body and soul together
by exercising but I had a neck operation
and that's stopped me from being able to
exercise so I need to work out a system
of doing that what I'm doing is I'm
taking the government to court for uh
non- contct child abuse of children in
school via their um transgender policies
in the UK schooling in schools because
it's disgusting what they're teaching
our children and we've got a we've put
together a big case and we're going to
take the Department of Education to
court I'm fighting the um who's we who's
we that so I started I started not once
I realize that politics is fine but it's
not what people care about people are
going to vote red they're going to vote
blue they're going to vote red they're
going to vote blue they're going to swap
one time or another I we thought okay
what are the other things that we can do
to change stuff so we started up
something called the bad law project
which is my team which is a small team
it's about six eight people and I have
um two I have a barrister and a sister
within that team and we are going to
take the dep Department of Education to
court to stop them teaching our kids
this stuff because once we stop them
teaching the kids this stuff then what
comes out of university is not going to
be such a problem um we're fighting our
we have an MP in Andrew bridin uh in
Northwest esia who was kicked out of the
conservative party uh for criticizing
the covid vaccine roll out and saying
that it did cause some problems and then
we do bits of Media stuff as well you
know just just to sort of you know offer
up some thoughts about life so we try
and look at it as a stool whereby we
have legal political and um media and
I'll do that until I can't take it
anymore but at the moment I'm
sat totally desperate because I've
walked out of my Lial case two weeks ago
and I'll get a judgment before Christmas
and it and it will be very very
important judgment for the UK because
the judge is being asked to define the
meaning of the word
racist which is what I always wanted I
wanted someone to define this word as
certainly in law because we got two
versions of it even in the in the UK law
we have the equal treatment bench book
which defines the racist as pretty much
everybody who has a bad thought about
anybody it's it's a it's and this is
judges guidance and then you've got the
Oxford English Dictionary before it's
turned into the maram Webster dictionary
which says racism is prejudice against
someone based on the color of their skin
or their ethnicity so I really want to
work out I I've been called the racist
so I took someone to court they took me
to court I took them to court I'm
waiting to hear on a judgment on that
and I think that would that that will be
very I think that will really matter to
to the people of Britain can can you
provide some more details about the
nature of the case and what it is that
you're hoping to accomplish and what you
have at stake yeah so um in
2020 uh the big supermarket in the UK
called
sabes tweeted um that that they were
going to provide in the light of George
Floyd's death they were going to provide
safe spaces for their black
employees in their
supermarket to which I
responded that's protos segregationism
are they not safe are they not safe in
your
Supermarket uh so then I was branded a
racist by uh three people one of them
was uh was in Show Business was you know
one of my colleagues in Show Business
and she said anyone who hires Lawrence
Fox does so in the knowledge he's
unequivocally unapologetically and
publicly
racist so I mean that was that was a
that was a pretty that was a death nail
to my acting career so I just swapped
the word I SW I swapped the Tweet round
and I said anyone who hires Nicola Thorp
which is her name does so in the
knowledge she's unequivocally
unapologetically and publicly a
pedophile and she then tweeted she she
then sued me for defamation
and I countersuit her for racism which
is what I wanted to do so we just
finished the court case in the last we
finished it a week ago on last Thursday
and we're expecting a judgment in the
next short period And it and it's it's
going to be interesting because it'll
mean for for the person that like you
say they always come for the the smaller
person they don't come for the guy with
a big profile he's not going to arrest
you at he throw for criticizing his
climate scan cameras is he he's going to
arrest somebody else who's done it so
that I'm trying to fight for the fact
that you're not going to lose your job
for criticizing diversity equity and
inclusion and you're not going to
criticize you're not you're not going to
lose your job for for criticizing
so-called anti-racism and you're not
going to lose your lose your job for
complaining about the dilution of your
culture none of which is racist it's
just like a family it's protecting your
your thing so we'll see I think it'll be
quite quite a quite a and is it done is
it is it done except for the
Jud how how do you how do you feel about
how do you feel about your case are you
optimistic pessimistic can you say I I I
all I can say is that I it's very very
hard to lie in
court and and when I I didn't have to
lie when I was in court I didn't have to
tell a single lie but some of the
examples were of the advantages of
telling the truth is that when push
comes to shove it makes your life a hell
of a lot simpler well you're right but
you know your it's your it's your Mantra
which is a really good um it's a really
good you know I say it to my kids I
think people do and I think you you've
offered this to people which is like you
know honesty is the honesty is the best
policy it's another one of these truisms
that that people just forgot and
replaced with no Martin Luther King is
so yesterday it's like no no these
things really matter to people so um I I
sat and had my character dismantled by
a an activist Barrister and I gave as
good as I
got you're feeling I didn't
lie so you're
feeling morally confident in your in
your stance and and when when do you
find out well I think the Judgment may
come down this Friday and if it comes
down this Friday then it's good news for
for for British people who you know
don't want to be called racist just
because they disagree with somebody
about any issue at all now you can be
called a racist for disagreeing about
climate change but you know we the other
thing about England and we were talking
about it earlier is this sort of stoic
sense of patience that the Brits have in
the UK if you call someone a racist
that's your job finished forever that's
it it's gone it means so much and yet to
the people that throw the allegation
around it means nothing so you know we
have a problem there and I my emnity was
I when I said that I would like to go
for a beer with uh those guys one of the
people I didn't want to go for a beer
with because they were so possessed with
why are you asking me questions you're a
white supremacist it's like hang on a
minute a middle class woman in a dock is
accusing a middleclass man of being a
racist there's no black people or brown
people anywhere near this court case
it's just white people walking around
calling each other racist so I my job my
goal uh if it's will is to preserve the
one thing that a man owns and and my
father taught me and my children will Le
from me which is you have your good name
and that's it that's it you got nothing
else yeah well a huge a huge part of
this culture war
is the battle between true and
false writes to a good name you know an
immense part of what's driving the
allyship on the part of the radicals is
the desire to enhance their reputation
without having to do any of the
productive work necessary to have a
reputation and to substitute any and all
other qualifications for genuine
qualification the president of
Harvard has 11 Publications to her
name okay so she was a tenur professor
in the Ivy Leagues first at Stanford if
I remember correctly then a Dean at
Harvard and then the president of
Harvard she isn't qualified enough to
get a junior position at a midlevel
State University in Canada or the US
right so in order for her to justify
even the fact of her academic existence
she has to invent an entire entirely
different structure of value to position
herself as a contender for
for the occupations that were granted to
her it's an absolute bloody travesty but
so how do we put up with that so when
yours this I have a huge issue with this
as well because the man who taught me
English so my first interaction with the
English language was from a man called
Jeremy lemon and he took uh he taught my
father English he was that old he had
been teaching at school that and he
taught me how to understand the English
language and he taught it to me at a
time when I was able to receive it 13
really like able to and it it gave me
millions of pounds for my career I it
earned me Millions because I understood
the language and how it works and and
and what it was and now I look at these
I look at some of the stuff my kids come
home with and I look at some of the
stuff and I just go you're not learning
anything like you're not learning
anything you're being told a lot of
stuff but you're not learning anything
yeah well you know our while my plan for
that is my daughter and I are launching
a new University Enterprise probably in
February we've got excellent professors
delivering what I think will be the best
quality lectures available both
technically and and conceptually I think
you know this is this is an optimistic
way of looking at it you know as the
utopian globalist types the idealogues
abandon everything of value beauty truth
justice genuine marit it they leave it
all on the table and what that should
mean is that other people can just come
along and scoop it up and make use of it
and I mean again that seems to be a more
appropriate response than railing
Against The Establishment it's like well
if they're doing such a bad job maybe we
can do a better job and invite people
along we had a really quite a
spectacular success with this Ark
conference I here's something cool so we
released the videos from the art
conference and within 3 weeks we had
four times as many views of our material
as the wef had of what they released on
YouTube over the last year good so I
think that you know and this this speaks
back to the conversation partial
conversation we had earlier about
whether or not we could risk being
optimistic is that
as those who oppose our culture abandon
what's useful about it that does free up
the opportunity for other people to make
use of it and maybe there's infinite
opportunity there I mean certainly
that's look at what's happened on on the
social media side I mean as the Legacy
corporate media Enterprises have become
almost universally corrupt there's been
a massive opportunity for people like
Joe Rogan who really do nothing but sit
down and have an honest conversation and
so you know that's a pretty good deal
so all right well look I want to wish
you
good luck in your lawsuits and your your
Pursuits especially against the the
people in the education departments I
mean I I can't see any Enterprise in the
west that's become more corrupt than the
education Enterprise per se right K
through 12 University the whole bloody
thing looks like it's done as far as I
can tell and maybe something
spectacularly better will emerge as an
alternative it it certainly could be the
case be very I'll be watching the
progress of your court cases with real
interest and um maybe I don't know
exactly know when this will release
it'll probably be after your uh the
results of your liel case are are made
public and so we'll update everybody on
that um thank you very much for agreeing
to talk to me today I'm just going to
let everybody know too I'm going to
spend an extra half an hour as I always
do talking to Lawrence on the dw+
platform after this um and I'm going to
walk walked through the details of his
life which we didn't get to on this side
of the conversation so if all of you who
are watching and listening want to join
us over there you're more than welcome
to and uh other than that is there
anything else you'd like to bring to the
attention of people who are watching and
listening before we close off this
segment
um just
to just to speak if you don't speak no
one's going to hear you just speak yeah
if you have something to say
and it's it it's grinding away at you
probably time to say it even if you
don't do it perfectly right right yeah
all right Mr Fox pleasure talking to you
and getting to know you a little bit
better uh thank you to everybody
watching and listening to the Daily War
plus people for making this possible for
coming up here to Vancouver Island which
is where I am now bit of a family um
emergency up here and so thank you for
to all those people for making this
podcast possible and uh to everyone
watching and listening thanks for your
time and attention and we'll see you
again in the relatively near
future Fox off to the Daily wire plus
[Music]
side